Hello and welcome to this new tutorial now it is time to implement the Wii part of the Wii meaning we're
going to implement this the classic way of getting the final late and vector Z because indeed right
now we are at this specific step where we've just flattened the result of these four convolutions into
a one dimensional vector of two times two times two hundred and fifty six elements and death would be
the final latent vector of a classic encoder.
But here we were building a variational our encoder and therefore instead of returning this latent vector
Z in a deterministic way as a result of these four convolutions.
Well as you can see we're going to sample it from a factor Gaussian distribution of mean new and variance
Sigma.
So the way we're going to do this is we're going to make two separate fully connected layers MU and
sigma.
And we're going to build them with the dense function by tensor flow.
That's why you see dense here and dense is always the name of the classes and functions to build fully
connected layers and then using the random normal distribution by sense of flow we're going to generate
or you know simple some numbers from a normal distribution meaning Gaussian distribution of zero and
variance one.
And we're going to add all this to obtain the final latent vector which is the result of some stochastic
operations.
Therefore it's given in a stochastic way as opposed to a deterministic way.
So let's do this let's build these two fully connected layers and then let's sample our final Late in
fact z from the fact that Gaussian distribution.
So back on Python here we go.
Let's start with the first fully connected layer which is me.
So I'm going to introduce a new variable here self that new which is going to be well a fully connected
layer which we can create thanks to a of the following way.
We're calling for instance flow and from tons of flow we're getting first the layers module and from
the layers module we're going to get that dense function.
And this function is going to take three arguments that we have to specify here.
The first one is going to be the input vector of this fully connected layer.
You know as an artificial neural network which you saw in step 1 artificial neural networks.
So why do you think is going to be this input vector here of this fully connected layer Well of course
that's going to be the flattened vector resulting from the four convolutions and therefore it is going
to be h.
And then as a second argument we need to specify how many neurons we want to have and this fully connected
layer or how many units as it is the name of the argument here and we'll to figure out what this number
is going to be.
We just need to look again at our architecture made by the others.
And since actually we're going to some these two dense layers with this normal distribution here multiply
two sigma.
Well actually the size of this first fully connected layer is going to be exactly that size here because
data size is the size of that here and that is the sum of these two layers.
And therefore what you want is 1024 units.
In this first fully connected layer However this number is actually the xit size argument here.
That is one of the arguments of the method meaning of the future instances of the company A-Class.
When we create them and therefore we don't have to specify 1024 right now we will specify that later
when we enter the argument value here and therefore we can just input self taught that size.
Here we go.
Right.
Perfect.
And then as usual we can you know add a name to that specific letter.
So I'm just going to get this and we're going to replace here.
Come one by.
Well we can still say that we're in the encoder and we're going to replace one by fully connected.
Because we're building the first fully connected live MMU in the variational part of the V so F C and
then we can just say you are right.
So we got the first one when we got this one.
And now let's build this one sigma.
So it's going to be the same technique.
So I'm going to copy this then pasted below.
We're going to replace me by not Sigma directly but by LUGG variants locavore because actually LUGG
voice what's inside the exponential distribution right and Lavaur is going to be exactly the fully connected
layer inside the exponential which is going to take again to late and vector age as input which when
we turn here as a result of the four convolutions then same set size again for the same reason because
we are summing these two layers to get the final latent to Z with the 1024 elements which corresponds
exactly to that size.
And now for the name we're going to replace that on.
Seamew of course.
FC look for.
All right so that gives us what's going to be inside exponential of this.
Second part of the some here new Plus Sigma multiply by the normal distribution.
But since you actually want a Gaussian distribution of mean new and variants Sigma Well of course now
we get to take the exponential and so to get it.
Well now is the time to get Sigma.
And therefore I'm introducing this new Sigma variable as a variable or object to solve that Sigma and
Zelda Sigma is exactly going to be the exponential of love R but you know divided by two because in
the formula after Galchen distribution in the denominator you actually have two.
So let's take that exponential.
We're going to get a sense of flow.
So I'm calling sense of flow T.F. from which I'm going to take the exponential function inside which
I'm going to enter.
Of course self that Lugovoy are divided by two point zero.
Because this is a float operation and perfect.
Now we get the second fully connected layer Sigma.
And so now we can just some these two but Sigma is of course going to be multiplied by the random normal
distribution and the random normal distribution is actually a function of by by of flow which is the
random underscore normal function.
And that's exactly what we're going to use to compute that final sum.
So let's do this let's get that final sum But first if you want we can you know get separately that
and 0 1 you know the normal distribution meaning the in distribution of 0 and variance 1 so that you
can clearly see how to get it.
And so we're going to introduce that as Epsilon a new horrible object.
And as we've just said we can get it by using from tens of flow the random normal function of a list
of two elements in square brackets.
The first one is going to be the batch size so here we go that's where we specify the batch size not
right here.
We're going to specify this in Epsilon here and the batch size is actually a variable of our object
self-edit batch size which we initialized in the method.
So that's the first element here.
And the second one is going to be the size of the late and vector Z which is 1024 and which is given
by also a viable or object self set size.
So let's say that right here.
And so now the fact that we create the random normal distribution this way will allow us to get not
only a single simpled latent vector Z as the result of this.
Some of these two fully connected letters MU and sigma.
But the fact that we created this way will allow us to give us a batch of latent vectors Zee's all resulting
from the sum of these two fully connected letters new and sigma.
All right so now we're finally ready to get actually now the batch of latent vectors.
And so this is going to be the simple part because now we have all the elements of this operation right
here which is going to sum the first fully connected layer that we created you.
And this product of the second fully integrated layer Sigma which we created as well and this normal
distribution.
So let's do this.
We can now get the final late.
Fact that and it is going to be as we've just said the sum of self that you plus self that Sigma multiplied
by the normal distribution self that Absolom.
Here we go.
Perfect that implements the VI Part of the V which you have to understand will allow us to get in a
sticky lastic way as opposed to a deterministic way to late and that uses which result therefore is
to classically from our previous four convolutions.
All right so we have now one more part to go it is of course the decoded part of the D and we'll do
that in the next tutorial.
You can actually practice to do it yourself.
I'm just going to tell you the function that you have to use by sense of flow.
It's going to the underscore transpose.
So try to do it yourself by just following the architecture here.
It's going to be exactly the same as what we've just done for the encoder except that this time you
have to use it comes to the underscore transpose function.
So you have all you need to do it yourself with all the information here.
So try it for practice and I'll give you the solution in the next tutorial.
Until then enjoy AI.